Phase 1 Project Setup
Initialize Project Repository

Set up a Git repository for version control.
Create a project structure based on the directory layout we discussed.
Setup Frontend (React)

Navigate to the client directory.
Initialize a new React project using Create React App.
Install necessary dependencies
bash
Copy code
npx create-react-app client
cd client
npm install axios react-router-dom chart.js
Set up basic routing with react-router-dom and create placeholder pages for Dashboard and Home.
Setup Backend (Node.js & Express)

Navigate to the server directory.
Initialize a new Node.js project and install dependencies
bash
Copy code
npm init -y
npm install express dotenv web3 ethers
Set up a basic Express server with a single test route (apitest) to confirm the server is running.
Create Basic Contracts Directory

Navigate to the contracts directory.
Set up Hardhat for smart contract development
bash
Copy code
npm init -y
npm install --save-dev hardhat @openzeppelincontracts
npx hardhat
Create a sample smart contract (ArbitrageBot.sol) for testing and compile it using Hardhat.
Phase 2 Backend Development
Create Block Data API

Define routes in blockRoutes.js for fetching block data based on a block number.
Create blockController.js to handle requests for block data.
Use web3.js or ethers.js to fetch block data and transaction details.
Implement logic to calculate gas-related metrics (e.g., average gas price, top gas spenders).
Implement Gas Analysis Service

In blockService.js, create functions to analyze gas usage in the block.
Calculate metrics like total gas used, top gas spenders, and average gas price.
Return data in a structured format to the controller.
Set Up Environment Configuration

Create a .env file to store environment variables (e.g., Ethereum node URL, port number).
Update config.js to read these variables and configure the application.
Test Backend API

Use Postman or curl to test each API endpoint.
Verify the correct data is returned for different block numbers.
Implement error handling for invalid block numbers or missing data.
Phase 3 Frontend Development
Set Up State Management and Routing

Implement React Router for navigating between pages (e.g., Home, Dashboard).
Set up basic state management using React’s Context API or Redux (if needed).
Create Block Input Form Component

Build BlockForm.js with an input field for users to enter a block number.
Include validation to ensure a valid block number is entered.
Develop Dashboard Components

Create BlockDetails.js to display block information such as block number, miner, and transaction count.
Build GasAnalytics.js to visualize gas usage data using Chart.js.
Create TransactionList.js to list transactions within the block, allowing sorting and filtering.
Integrate Frontend with Backend

Use axios to call the backend API when a user submits a block number.
Update the state with the data received and pass it to the components (BlockDetails, GasAnalytics, TransactionList).
Implement Loading and Error States

Add loading spinners or messages while data is being fetched.
Display user-friendly error messages for invalid block numbers or API errors.
Phase 4 Smart Contract Integration (Optional)
Deploy ArbitrageBot Contract

Deploy the ArbitrageBot.sol contract to a local blockchain (using Hardhat) or testnet.
Verify deployment and note the contract address.
Integrate Smart Contract with Backend

Update the backend service to interact with the deployed contract using ethers.js.
Create endpoints to call specific contract functions (if needed).
Frontend Integration for Smart Contract

Allow users to interact with the contract directly from the frontend (e.g., calling a contract function to store user preferences).
Use MetaMask or another Web3 provider to sign and send transactions.
Phase 5 Testing and Quality Assurance
Write Backend Tests

Implement unit tests for backend services and controllers using a framework like Mocha or Jest.
Test various scenarios, including valid and invalid block numbers.
Write Frontend Tests

Use Jest and React Testing Library to write tests for components and interactions.
Ensure components display the correct data based on the API response.
Smart Contract Testing

Write unit tests for the ArbitrageBot.sol contract using Hardhat and Mocha.
Test contract functions and edge cases.
Phase 6 Deployment and Documentation
Deploy Backend and Frontend

Deploy the backend to a service like Render or Heroku.
Deploy the frontend to a service like Netlify or Vercel.
Ensure both frontend and backend are correctly configured to communicate.
Update Documentation

Write detailed README files for the root project, frontend, and backend.
Include setup instructions, API documentation, and usage examples.
Final Testing and Debugging

Perform end-to-end testing to ensure the entire application works as expected.
Fix any bugs or issues identified during testing.
Publish and Share

Share the project link in your portfolio or GitHub.
Highlight the key features and technical skills demonstrated in the project.